I wanna show you some examples from
a talk I gave that never got recorded.
And I think this is kinda cool to see.
Instead of me sitting here at a screen and
writing all these out,
I'm just gonna point out
some actual use cases.
So here, we have getAppAlerts, right?
And getDirectMessages.
They're both returning the arrays
of alerts and messages like JSON.
And I can actually just combine
all those promises, responses.
In a pure functional setting,
you'd be using task instead of promise.
We can easily write concat on
promise by just saying concat
whatever this promise is holding
with whatever that one's holding.
And then, we get the ability
to combine two API calls and
get can collect all their results.
We can do that.
It's associative, and it's closed,
so we can do that in parallel.
We can chunk it,
we can hit a bunch of servers at once and
come back with all the results.
MapReduce.
In the same vein,
I didn't mention this earlier,
but map is a way to define a semi-group or
on a object.
And the way it would work is if you
look here, we’re gonna go get a post.
We did this example on the hardcore
functional programming class where we
went and got a post from the server,
we got it back, and
then we got comments from the server and
we wanted to assign them to the post.
Well, this is going that in one line.
getPost returns JSON as a map instance,
right?
So it's like map is an object and
it will merge as a concat.
And if it hits a merge conflict on a key,
it'll just concat the merge conflict.
So what you end up having is this
kind of map merge situation where we
just assigned comments to our
blog post just by calling concat.
Does everybody see how that works?
I mean, I'm just kinda gonna glaze
over a bunch of these little examples.
But it's pretty useful if you ask me and
everyone else.
So here's a tryCatch.
We saw this in the hardcore
functional programming class.
We're gonna read file sync.
This isn't pure, to be fair, but
it shows the example of we're
gonna say readFileSync.
And it's gonna just concat all their
contents here with the full map.
It'll read all these files and
concat all the contents, awesome.
And if any of them blow up,
we will just get the left.
I don't have that example.
It'll just show you the error.
And as we saw before,
we can wrap either in another type to
kinda gracefully make different decisions.
So here's the same thing, async,
and almost nothing changes, right?
We just said promisify the read file,
and since we're saying promise here,
it has a concat method, it will do
the exact same thing, but async.
And I changed nothing other than the
monoid or semi-group I provided it with.
And you can see the empty,
it's just Promise.resolve empty string.
So therefore, we have a monoid in
the situation, empty string, and a promise
holding empty string would be the empty
method of this particular workflow.
Here, we have, let's see,
read a file and get an array.
Works the exact same way as the strings.
It'll just combine all the arrays.
Here's an example of doing a null check.
So now,
we're cascading these things, right?
We're saying okay, I wanna go in there,
I wanna read all these files, async.
I wanna get all their contents,
I wanna split them into words.
So we have all these arrays,
I'm gonna concat all those arrays.
But if I get a null, I just wanna stop.
[LAUGH] Otherwise, everything
worked out and everything's good.
That's powerful.
This is power.
[LAUGH] So let's see couple more examples,
and then we'll build some stuff.
Here, we have getting a bunch of
configs and combining them from files.
Here's a good one.
So this is kind of
a typical use case here.
So we're gonna do is we're
gonna walk over the DOM tree.
I made a tree functor
slash foldable monoid.
And what I've done is say my report is a
map, and it's gonna get the element count.
And this is playing off the fact that
if I'm a type and I'm holding entirely
monoids, then I can concat just because
all my pieces are also monoids.
So what map does is just merge, right?
And if it hits the same key, it combines
those as the merge conflict resolution.
So what it's gonna do is run
through the entire DOM tree and
get every element, every class name,
every tag, and max.
And each one has a different
way to combine, and
it will give me an entire report
in one loop over the entire tree.
Which rules [LAUGH], right?
I've done this a few different times for
DOM tree processing.
And if we wanna get super fancy,
what if I have a bunch of documents and
I wanna fold down that list and
get reports on that?
There's one extra layer, right?
I'm not just doing one DOM tree, I'm doing
the entire site now and getting a report
on all the elements, classes, tags, and
the max height of the bounding regs.
So that is, again, super powerful.